M-T: How did the idea of this great super production come about?

nothing special, just a sc4 omnidirectional scroll that I wrote
and the desire for fast paced action.

M-T: The process was long, but necessary. Games of this magnitude 
require hundreds of hours of work. Are you satisfied with the result?

More than. It's above my expectation. We got amazing responses and
this is so inspiring.

M-T: The game was mainly produced by Bart and you, although other 
people Kai Magazine and John Hassink have also appeared. What part 
of the project was Norakomi involved in?

coding: demoengine & gameengine
sfx

M-T: Years ago I had the opportunity to see a primitive version of the 
first screen of the game. At that time I had the perception of an 
arcade reminiscent of the arcade Strider. Was the goal always to 
make an action/exploration RPG type of game?

Yeah totally, I honestly love playing this (type of) game.
It's fast action, yet keeps you interested throughout the entire game,
due to the amazing sceneries, fantasticly designed maps and 
the beautiful music in the game.

M-T: The action in the game is incredibly fast. Had more enemies 
been added on the screen, could the gameplay have suffered?

The maximum amount of sprites the vdp can display is 32.
The player and enemies are very big sprites.
The player is already 12 sprites. There is often no option to put 
more enemies in screen.
A spritesplit could have been a consideration if more people would
have brought this up, but no one seemed to have been bothered 
by the amount of enemies in the maps.

M-T: In other games we have seen that when adding FM music, the 
resources for the game decrease, eating up FPS or space. How did we
manage to put MSX-Music, MSX Audio and OPL4 on without the game 
suffering in the slightest?

the game runs on 30 fps.
That's basically the reason we can run all these components together.
We have 2x more time to do everything than a game that runs on 60 fps.

MT: Holland never really disappeared from the MSX community. But if
we are witnessing a relay in terms of production of the Spanish 
community that has lasted more than a decade. Are we witnessing in 
recent times the return of Holland?

I don't know. We are just having fun creating some freaky shit.

M-T: Can you tell us about any new project you have planned?

Holy shit....... well, it's a metroidvania in the making.
but really, it borders more toward an art project.
Everyone involved is constantly polishing every little detail, 
and it's just jaw dropping. I hope it will be well received. 

Let's hope for more games from you soon and that the Dutch 
community will continue to flow for a long time to come. Thanks.